OUR ANSWER DOES not deal with ethics or etiquette. Nor do we
aim to compete with philosophers, preachers, or parents. Our theme,
although less lofty, affects the lives of all of us just as much as do morality
and manners. This book is about strategic behavior. All of us are strategists,
whether we like it or not. It is better to be a good strategist than a bad one,
and this book aims to help you improve your skills at discovering and using
effective strategies.
Work, even social life, is a constant stream of decisions. What career to
follow, how to manage a business, whom to marry, how to bring up
children, and whether to run for president are just some examples of such
fateful choices. The common element in these situations is that you do not
act in a vacuum. Instead, you are surrounded by active decision makers
whose choices interact with yours. This interaction has an important effect
on your thinking and actions.
To illustrate the point, think of the difference between the decisions of a
lumberjack and those of a general. When the lumber-jack decides how to
chop wood, he does not expect the wood to fight back: his environment is
neutral. But when the general tries to cut down the enemy’s army, he must
anticipate and overcome resistance to his plans. Like the general, you must
recognize that your business rivals, prospective spouse, and even your
children are strategic. Their aims often conflict with yours, but they may
well coincide. Your own choice must allow for the conflict and utilize the
cooperation. This book aims to help you think strategically, and then
translate these thoughts into action.
The branch of social science that studies strategic decision making is
called game theory. The games in this theory range from chess to childrearing, from tennis to takeovers, and from advertising to arms control. As
the Hungarian humorist George Mikes expressed it, “Many continentals
think life is a game; the English think cricket is a game.” We think both are
right.
Playing these games requires many different kinds of skills. Basic skills,
such as shooting ability in basketball, knowledge of precedents in law, or a
blank face in poker, are one kind; strategic thinking is another. Strategic
thinking starts with your basic skills and considers how best to use them.
Knowing the law, you must decide the strategy for defending your client.
Knowing how well your football team can pass or run and how well the
other team can defend against each choice, your decision as the coach is
whether to pass or to run. Sometimes, as in the case of nuclear
brinkmanship, strategic thinking also means knowing when not to play.
shanks is here

